pelican/website/content/pages/buy.md, before:

title: 💵 Buy
modified: 2024-05-29
menu_order_key: 1

Please buy a copy of my book if you can afford to.
Anyone willing and able to pay me will help me continue this work.
No worries if you can't do this--free and discounted copies are available as well.
I chose this pricing structure to prioritize distribution over profit.

Ebooks are available now, paperback is coming soon.

The ebook bundle price is USD 25.00.
This bundle includes all downloadable versions.

### Download ebook

Several versions are available.

### Pay

Please also [send me an email]({filename}/pages/contact.md) so I have some context.
Tell me how much you're sending and why.
If you're sending cryptocurrency, please tell me the equivalent USD amount.

I've listed these in order of preference.
Peercoin is especially interesting to me.
I wish I could put it at the top, but it's too volatile and difficult to exchange for the flavor of fiat money I use to buy groceries.

| method   | address                            |
|----------|------------------------------------|
| Zelle    | haircut@gmail.com                  |
| PayPal   | haircut@gmail.com                  |
| Venmo    | haircut@gmail.com or @meonkeys     |
| Bitcoin  | 18XjpBwNccX9cvC2qiUgXLeeyY1jj3g5QW |
| Peercoin | PRHQk8tcyvBmgkm9nfbLg7LJoZ48v8nciB |

### Paperback

Coming soon.

### Hardcover

I don't have plans to print a hardcover edition.

### Hire me

Somewhat related: I'm looking for work!
I'd like to write another book but I can't afford to right now.
I'll either need this book to sell well, get an advance for my next book, or take on other work.
If I take on other work, ideally I'd be able to do work related to the book, like speaking engagements, training, FOSS homelab/homeprod install/support/maintenance, FOSS desktop computing, home personal cloud appliances, or running a community data center.

If you have an another/unrelated job idea please [let me know]({filename}/pages/contact.md).
I'm able to do a lot of things well.

Commit message:

clearly delineate gifts (donations) vs. book sales
and link to books for sale on Gumroad

pelican/website/content/pages/buy.md, after:

title: 💵 Buy
modified: 2024-05-29
menu_order_key: 1

Please buy a copy of my book if you can afford to.
I worked hard on it and it's worth it.
Anyone willing and able to buy it will help me continue this work.

No worries if you can't afford to pay: Free and discounted copies are available as well.
I chose this flexible pricing structure to prioritize distribution over profit.

### Ebook

[Available now for purchase and download on Gumroad](https://meonkeys.gumroad.com/l/shb).

### Paperback

Coming soon.

### Hardcover

I don't have plans to print a hardcover edition.

### Donations

If you'd like to send money directly to support me, thank you, that's awesome.
It's helpful if you also [send me an email]({filename}/pages/contact.md) so I have some context.
Include "Gift" in the email subject.
Tell me how much you're sending and why.
If you're sending cryptocurrency, please tell me the equivalent USD amount.

I've listed these in order of preference.
Peercoin is especially interesting to me.
I wish I could put it at the top, but it's too volatile and difficult to exchange for the flavor of fiat money I use to buy groceries.

| method   | address                            |
|----------|------------------------------------|
| Zelle    | haircut@gmail.com                  |
| PayPal   | haircut@gmail.com                  |
| Venmo    | haircut@gmail.com or @meonkeys     |
| Bitcoin  | 18XjpBwNccX9cvC2qiUgXLeeyY1jj3g5QW |
| Peercoin | PRHQk8tcyvBmgkm9nfbLg7LJoZ48v8nciB |

I sincerely appreciate these gifts.
I'm not a charity so these donations are not tax-deductible.

### Hire me

Somewhat related: I'm looking for work!
I'd like to write another book but I can't afford to right now.
I'll either need this book to sell well, get an advance for my next book, or take on other work.
If I take on other work, ideally I'd be able to do work related to the book, like speaking engagements, training, FOSS homelab/homeprod install/support/maintenance, FOSS desktop computing, home personal cloud appliances, or running a community data center.

If you have an another/unrelated job idea please [let me know]({filename}/pages/contact.md).
I'm able to do a lot of things well.
