pelican/website/content/pages/home.md, before:

title: 📖 Home
modified: 2024-04-19
URL:
save_as: index.html
menu_order_key: 0


This is the home for a most excellent book about self-hosting.
Read on to realize data sovereignty for you and your beloved users.

The book is in _early access_:
see [👀 Beta]({filename}/news/beta.md).

### Welcome!

You've found _the_ book with _the most_ authentic, hand-crafted, inspiring self-hosting recipe by seasoned tech entrepreneur and self-proclaimed self-hosting expert [Adam Monsen](https://adammonsen.com).
Benefit from Adam's decades of applied effort distilled into this quick and exciting initiation to data sovereignty.

Save money, time, and sanity
: Learn an easy and reliable method to self-host services for your small group of beloved users.

Batteries included
: Corresponding source code is provided under a Free and Open Source software license.

### From the back cover

Perils await, dear hero: the self-hosting ecosystem is crowded and confusing.

Fear not! I’ll help you quickly set up useful services on your very own server.

This book is your personal guide to joy; a battle-tested fast path to success. Learn how to quickly stand up reliable **services** in **containers** behind a **reverse proxy**.

With these three basic components we will summon a robust data haven. We'll take some basic concepts from systems administration and devops to create love, beauty, and deep meaning.

### Tools in the book

The book details why and how to use these tools to self-host:

* bare metal physical server
* Ubuntu operating system
* Ansible provisioner
* Traefik reverse proxy
* Docker container manager

It cover specific services you should host, mostly Nextcloud.

### Origin story

I researched and wrote the book over several years.
I've been working on related technologies professionally and personally for the last couple of decades.

I wrote this book after having realized the power and potential of self-hosting.
I used the method it describes to provide a robust data haven for myself and my family.
I haven't found other books like it and I want mine to be the first.

I've given lectures on self-hosting and received feedback from attendees: they are already experienced at learning tech, they are seeking the motivation to self-host along with high-quality information on how to do it well.
In response to this feedback I wrote a large Background chapter.
In it, I approach self-hosting with a good deal of justification for why someone should self-host at all.
I use anecdotes, figures, and tenants of relatable value-based living to provide sufficient motivation for getting through the learning and implementation stages of self-hosting.

### Audience

*Steadfast* primarily targets beginning self-hosters looking for a quick and reliable method to get started. Some basic IT and networking skills are required. A reader should be familiar with Linux, command-line basics, and transferring files to and from a server.

Experienced self-hosters will also benefit when they read, compare, and improve their existing homelabs.

### Author

[Adam](https://adammonsen.com) is a kind and savvy [FOSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software) enthusiast. He's been in tech for over 20 years: building, producing, coding, debugging, architecting, leading, managing, debugging some more, lecturing, writing, administering and securing systems and processes, ensuring privacy and compliance; in markets of all maturities, sizes, and scales; startups to big enterprise. He's most proud of his family, growing [Mifos](https://mifos.org), founding [SeaGL](https://seagl.org), selling [C-SATS](https://csats.com), and writing a FOSS book about self-hosting FOSS.

Adam is privileged and lucky to have given talks and workshops at a handful of conferences ([LFNW](https://lfnw.org/), [SeaGL](https://seagl.org), [LibrePlanet](https://libreplanet.org), [OSCON](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/O%27Reilly_Open_Source_Convention), [FOSSY](https://fossy.us/)) and various other engagements. There's a full list [here](https://adammonsen.com/talks/).

Commit message:

remove From the back cover

pelican/website/content/pages/home.md, after:

title: 📖 Home
modified: 2024-04-24
URL:
save_as: index.html
menu_order_key: 0


This is the home for a most excellent book about self-hosting.
Read on to realize data sovereignty for you and your beloved users.

The book is in _early access_:
see [👀 Beta]({filename}/news/beta.md).

### Welcome!

_Steadfast_ is an authentic and inspiring self-hosting tutorial by seasoned tech entrepreneur and self-proclaimed self-hosting expert [Adam Monsen](https://adammonsen.com).
Benefit from Adam's decades of applied effort distilled into this quick and exciting initiation to data sovereignty.

Save money, time, and sanity
: Learn an easy and reliable method to self-host services for your small group of beloved users.

Batteries included
: Corresponding source code is provided under a Free and Open Source software license.

### Tools in the book

The book details why and how to use these tools to self-host:

* bare metal physical server
* Ubuntu operating system
* Ansible provisioner
* Traefik reverse proxy
* Docker container manager
* Docker Compose service manager

It cover specific services you should host, mostly Nextcloud.

### Origin story

I researched and wrote the book over several years.
I've been working on related technologies professionally and personally for the last couple of decades.

I wrote this book after having realized the power and potential of self-hosting.
I used the method it describes to provide a robust data haven for myself and my family.
I haven't found other books like it and I want mine to be the first.

I've given lectures on self-hosting and received feedback from attendees: they are already experienced at learning tech, they are seeking the motivation to self-host along with high-quality information on how to do it well.
In response to this feedback I wrote a large Background chapter.
In it, I approach self-hosting with a good deal of justification for why someone should self-host at all.
I use anecdotes, figures, and tenants of relatable value-based living to provide sufficient motivation for getting through the learning and implementation stages of self-hosting.

### Audience

*Steadfast* primarily targets beginning self-hosters looking for a quick and reliable method to get started. Some basic IT and networking skills are required. A reader should be familiar with Linux, command-line basics, and transferring files to and from a server.

Experienced self-hosters will also benefit when they read, compare, and improve their existing homelabs.

### Author

[Adam](https://adammonsen.com) is a kind and savvy [FOSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software) enthusiast. He's been in tech for over 20 years: building, producing, coding, debugging, architecting, leading, managing, debugging some more, lecturing, writing, administering and securing systems and processes, ensuring privacy and compliance; in markets of all maturities, sizes, and scales; startups to big enterprise. He's most proud of his family, growing [Mifos](https://mifos.org), founding [SeaGL](https://seagl.org), selling [C-SATS](https://csats.com), and writing a FOSS book about self-hosting FOSS.

Adam is privileged and lucky to have given talks and workshops at a handful of conferences ([LFNW](https://lfnw.org/), [SeaGL](https://seagl.org), [LibrePlanet](https://libreplanet.org), [OSCON](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/O%27Reilly_Open_Source_Convention), [FOSSY](https://fossy.us/)) and various other engagements. There's a full list [here](https://adammonsen.com/talks/).
