pelican/website/content/pages/rules.md, before:

title: ⚖️ Rules
modified: 2024-05-24
menu_order_key: 1

These rules embody our values.
They guide how we interact with each other, with a focus on psychological safety and support, so we may best:

1. Have nuanced discussions & stay on topic.
1. Hear from a diverse set of people.
1. Learn new things together.

What you see here was created with care by a powerful, tiny team, not a big corporation.
The list of goals above was [inspired by Julia Evans](https://fosstodon.org/@b0rk@jvns.ca/112128315421487330).

### Community rules

When we communicate with each other, we promise to:

* Be kind and inclusive.
* Not use bots, AI, or other automations without transparency and consent.
* Act in good faith.
* Not spam, stay on-topic, and gracefully/calmly accept feedback on same.
* Follow the [SeaGL code of conduct](https://seagl.org/code_of_conduct).

We have a lot of [i18n and L10n](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internationalization_and_localization) work to do.
We currently only use English.

### Terms of Service

Participating in our community implies agreement to our terms.

As with our community rules: be kind and act in good faith.

Participation in this community is a privilege, neither a right nor guarantee.

### Privacy Policy

We collect only those data you directly provide and only to better serve you.
We will never sell these data.

Examples:

* email address
* name or nickname

This website does not attempt to profile you.
This website does not track you with cookies.

The server does log your IP address.
Your IP address will not be associated with your other data above, it is only used for website traffic statistics.

At any time you may contact [the publisher](https://sunrisedata.io) to request a copy of your data on file and/or request your data be deleted.
We will grant you the right to be forgotten regardless of where you live.

Commit message:

Add rudimentary admonitions
use "note" for my "English only" notice

See:
- https://python-markdown.github.io/extensions/admonition/
- https://codepen.io/haishanh/pen/zqqbmq

See also:
- https://github.com/pelican-plugins/webassets
- https://docs.getpelican.com/en/latest/themes.html

pelican/website/content/pages/rules.md, after:

title: ⚖️ Rules
modified: 2024-05-24
menu_order_key: 1

These rules embody our values.
They guide how we interact with each other, with a focus on psychological safety and support, so we may best:

1. Have nuanced discussions & stay on topic.
1. Hear from a diverse set of people.
1. Learn new things together.

What you see here was created with care by a powerful, tiny team, not a big corporation.
The list of goals above was [inspired by Julia Evans](https://fosstodon.org/@b0rk@jvns.ca/112128315421487330).

### Community rules

When we communicate with each other, we promise to:

* Be kind and inclusive.
* Not use bots, AI, or other automations without transparency and consent.
* Act in good faith.
* Not spam, stay on-topic, and gracefully/calmly accept feedback on same.
* Follow the [SeaGL code of conduct](https://seagl.org/code_of_conduct).

!!! note "English only"
    Sorry, we have a lot of [i18n and L10n](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internationalization_and_localization) work to do.
    We currently only support written and spoken English.

### Terms of Service

Participating in our community implies agreement to our terms.

As with our community rules: be kind and act in good faith.

Participation in this community is a privilege, neither a right nor guarantee.

### Privacy Policy

We collect only those data you directly provide and only to better serve you.
We will never sell these data.

Examples:

* email address
* name or nickname

This website does not attempt to profile you.
This website does not track you with cookies.

The server does log your IP address.
Your IP address will not be associated with your other data above, it is only used for website traffic statistics.

At any time you may contact [the publisher](https://sunrisedata.io) to request a copy of your data on file and/or request your data be deleted.
We will grant you the right to be forgotten regardless of where you live.
